---
title: "QNAP RAID resyncing"
date: 2023-08-30
tags: [qnap, raid]
description: "Priorities and RAID resyncing"
draft: false
---

With the QNAP Web configurator, it's easy to change the (re)syncing priorities
from _low_, to _medium_ or _high_ priorities. But what does it mean? These
settings affect the resync speed _min_ and (possibly) _max_ values. You can
consider in the case of QNAP that only the _min_ speed is changed. To increase
the priority, it increases the _min_ speed by following this table:

|     | low (service first) | medium (default) | high (resync first) |
| --- | ------------------- | ---------------- | ------------------- |
| min | 1000                | 40000            | 500000              |
| max | 500000              | 500000           | 500000              |

The values are in KB/s. What happens when you set the _high_ priority? It can be
very difficult to return to the QNAP Web configurator. In this table you can see
that the _min_ value is set to 500 MB/s. It means that it tries to use as much
as possible the hardware. I experienced these settings and it's good only for a
QNAP which is not used in production. So, maybe in this case we can use the
default settings in production and everything would be fine. Sometimes it's
right, and sometimes it's a problem too because the _max_ value is always very
high and it's possible that in production you want the NAS to be more reactive.

In this article, you will learn how to change these settings without the QNAP
Web configurator while the resyncing is already performing.

## All steps to see and configure the priorities

### Switch to SSH

I consider that you know SSH and you have activated SSH on the QNAP. If it's not
the case, it's the first thing to do.

```bash
ssh admin@the.qnap.nas.ip
```

> Forget the `root` account, QNAP uses `admin` for all the operations. Even if
> the QNAP is very busy, it's (in my experiences) always possible to reach the
> console management via SSH.

Once you are connected, a menu appears and looks like:

```
  +----------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  Console Management - Main menu                                |
  |                                                                |
  |  1: Show network settings                                      |
  |  2: System event logs                                          |
  |  3: Reset to factory default (password required)               |
  |  4: Activate/ deactivate a license                             |
  |  5: App management                                             |
  |  6: Reboot in Rescue mode (w/o configured disk)                |
  |  7: Reboot in Maintenance Mode                                 |
  |  Q: Quit (return to normal shell environment)                  |
  +----------------------------------------------------------------+
```

Press the `q` keystroke because we want to go to the normal shell environment.

### Dump the current status

Now that we have an admin prompt, what about the RAID? You can easily dump the
status via the `/proc` virtual filesystem.

```
[~] # cat /proc/mdstat
Personalities : [linear] [raid0] [raid1] [raid10] [raid6] [raid5] [raid4] [multipath]
md1 : active raid6 sdh3[13] sdg3[7] sde3[8] sda3[11] sdf3[12] sdd3[10] sdc3[9]
      87841850880 blocks super 1.0 level 6, 512k chunk, algorithm 2 [7/7] [UUUUUUU]
      [=========>...........]  resync = 45.5% (8009035776/17568370176) finish=3791.9min speed=76015K/sec

md322 : active raid1 sdh5[8](S) sdg5[4](S) sde5[5] sda5[7](S) sdf5[2] sdd5[3](S) sdc5[6](S)
      7235136 blocks super 1.0 [2/2] [UU]
      bitmap: 0/1 pages [0KB], 65536KB chunk

md256 : active raid1 sdh2[8](S) sdg2[4](S) sde2[5] sda2[7](S) sdf2[2] sdd2[3](S) sdc2[6](S)
      530112 blocks super 1.0 [2/2] [UU]
      bitmap: 0/1 pages [0KB], 65536KB chunk

md13 : active raid1 sdh4[25] sdg4[27] sde4[24] sda4[30] sdf4[29] sdd4[26] sdc4[28]
      458880 blocks super 1.0 [24/7] [UUUUUUU_________________]
      bitmap: 1/1 pages [4KB], 65536KB chunk

md9 : active raid1 sdh1[30] sdg1[27] sde1[24] sda1[28] sdf1[29] sdd1[26] sdc1[25]
      530048 blocks super 1.0 [24/7] [UUUUUUU_________________]
      bitmap: 1/1 pages [4KB], 65536KB chunk
```

In this dump, we see that it's `md1` which is resyncing with a current speed of
76 MB/s. Of course, the _min_ value is set to 500 MB/s (we have set the _high_
priority), then the resync follows this limit. The hardware is limited mostly by
the magnetic harddisk capabilities and 76 MB/s seems to be the best possible
speed here.

### How to see the current speed settings for `md1`?

Just do it:

```
[~] # cat /sys/block/md1/md/sync_speed_min
500000 (local)
```

You can look the _max_ speed is you want, just with `sync_speed_max` instead of
`sync_speed_min`. Here it's the current speed limit for this device only.

### Fine but I want to reach the QNAP Web configurator

Reduce the _min_ speed, and the Web GUI will works again. Because on Linux/Unix
everything is file, just write the new limit for this device in order to drive
the device.

```
echo 1000 > /sys/block/md1/md/sync_speed_min
```

This action is immediate, the minimal speed will be set to 1 MB/s. Now you can
use the QNAP Web configurator as usual. Use `cat /proc/mdstat` in order to
verify that the speed is changing.

Here we have not changed the _max_ limit, then the speed can still be high if
the QNAP is mostly "idle" for other operations.

### OK, thank you and good bye

Please wait, it's not finished. Of course, the system seems more usable but if
your QNAP is used in production, it can still be a problem even with the _low_
priority. The main reason is the _max_ value which is always set to 500 MB/s.
It's very high and it means that the speed can be very low but very high too. In
our case we have a virtual machine harddisk directly mounted via NFS. This
virtual harddisk must be reachable every time for the virtual machine. It's not
acceptable to have a _max_ of 500 MB/s for the RAID resyncing. The solution is
very simple, of course the resyncing will be longer (it's not magic).

```
echo 20000 > /sys/block/md1/md/sync_speed_max
```

Now the _max_ speed is limited to 20 MB/s. We are sure, that the RAID will be
all the time between 1 MB/s and 20 MB/s. We can imagine to use a CRON job in
order to change the value according to the daylight. Maybe the night we want
more speed because the system is less stressed.
